eventid: A 12-digit Event ID system. First 8 numbers – date recorded “yyyymmdd”. Last 4 numbers – sequential case number for the given day (0001, 0002 etc).

iyear: This field contains the year in which the incident occurred.

imonth: This field contains the number of the month in which the incident occurred.

iday: This field contains the numeric day of the month on which the incident occurred.

extended: 1 = "Yes" The duration of an incident extended more than 24 hours. 0 = "No" The duration of an incident extended less than 24 hours.

country: This field identifies the country code.

country_txt: This field identifies the country or location where the incident occurred.

region: This field identifies the region code based on 12 regions.

region_txt: This field identifies the region in which the incident occurred.

provstate: Name (at the time of event) of the 1st order subnational administrative region.

city: Name of the city, village, or town in which the incident occurred.

latitude: The latitude of the city in which the event occurred.

longitude: The longitude of the city in which the event occurred.

success: Success of a terrorist strike, 0 = 'No', 1= 'Yes'.

suicide: 1 = "Yes" The incident was a suicide attack. 0 = "No" There is no indication that the incident was a suicide attack.

attacktype1: The general method of attack.

attacktype1_txt: The general method of attack and broad class of tactics used.

targtype1_txt: The general type of target/victim.

targsubtype1_txt: The more specific target category.

target1: The specific person, building, installation that was targeted and/or victimized.

natlty1_txt: The nationality of the target that was attacked.

gname: The name of the group that carried out the attack.

gsubname: Additional details about the group that carried out the attack like factions.

nperps: The total number of terrorists participating in the incident.

weaptype1_txt: General type of weapon used in the incident.

weapsubtype1_txt: More specific value for most of the Weapon Types.

nkill: The number of total confirmed fatalities for the incident.

nkillus: The number of U.S. citizens who died as a result of the incident.
